## Assignment 3

## Photo Album

### Posted Fri, Oct 21
GUI Storyboard and Work Split Document Due (Bitbucket) <font color="red">Wed, Nov 2, 11 PM</font>
Complete Implementation Due (Bitbucket) <font color="red">Tue, Nov 22, 11 PM</font>

### Worth 225 points (22.5% of course grade)

</center>

* * *

For this assignment you will build a photo album application.

You will work **in pairs** on this assignment. Read the [DCS Academic Integrity Policy for Programmming Assignments](http://www.cs.rutgers.edu/policies/academicintegrity/index.php?page=3) - you are responsible for this. In particular, note that **"All Violations of the Academic Integrity Policy will be reported by the instructor to the appropriate Dean".**

* * *

In this assignment, you will design and implement a single-user photo album application, with all user interaction implemented in Java FX, and all UIs--except for standard Java FX dialogs such as Alert and TextInputDialog--designed in FXML. Note that you can use multiple stages to show complex secondary windows, and these stages can be made modal. Also, you can switch multiple scenes within a stage.

You will continue working with your partner.

* * *

## Contents

1.  [Features](#overview)
2.  [Model](#model)
3.  [GUI Storyboard](#storyboard)
4.  [Work Split Document](#worksplit)
5.  [Complete Implementation (With UML, Javadocs and Data files)](#gui)
6.  [Bitbucket Contents](#bitbucket)
7.  [Grading](#grading)
8.  [Exxtrraa Credit - Google Vision](#vision)

* * *

<a name="overview"></a>

## Features

Your application must implement the following features:

**Login**

*   When the application starts, a user logs in with username. Password implementation is optional. It makes for a "real" scenario, but is irrelevant to the essence of the project.

**Admin Subsystem**

*   There must be a special username **admin** that will put the application in an administration sub-system. The **admin** user can then do any of the following:
    *   List users
    *   Create a new user
    *   Delete an existing user

**Non-admin User Subsystem**

*   Once the user logs in successfully, all albums and photo information for this user from a previous session (if any) are loaded from disk. Initially, all the albums belonging to the user should be displayed. For each album, its name, the number of photos in it, the date of the oldest photo, and the range of dates (earliest and latest date) on which photos were taken. Use your discretion on how to show this additional information.

*   The user can then do the following:

*   Create albums
*   Delete albums
*   Rename albums
*   Open an album. Opening an album displays all photos, with their _thumbnail_ images and captions, inside that album. Once an album is open the user can do the following:

*   Add a photo
*   Remove a photo
*   Caption/recaption a photo
*   Display a photo. Displaying a photo should fit the image in its display area, and should also show caption, date-time of capture, and all the tags (see more on tags below toward the end of this section)
*   Add a tag to a photo
*   Delete a tag from a photo
*   Copy a photo from one album to another
*   Move a photo from one album to another
*   Go through photos in album in sequence forward or backward (manual slideshow)

*   Search for photos (Photos that match the search criteria should be displayed in a similar way to how photos in an album are displayed). Under this, you should provide the following specific features:
    1.  Search for photos by a date range.
    2.  Search for photos by tag type-value pairs.
*   There should be functionality to create an album containing the search results. Note: A photo can be in multiple albums. Creating an album out of search results means adding these photos to a new album, _without deleting them from the current album(s) to which they belong_.

**Logout**

*   The user (whether admin or non-admin) logs out at the end of the session. All updates made by the user are saved to disk.
*   After a user logs out, the application is still running, allowing another user to log in.
*   After a user logs out, the application is still running, allowing another user to log in.

**Safe Quit**

*   There should be an alternative way for the user to quit the application **safely** at any time. Safely means that you should make sure that all updates that were made to the system in the current user's session are recorded correctly as required by the user.
*   Unlike logout, the application stops running. The next user that wants to use the application will need to restart it.

**Errors**

*   In the application all errors and exceptions should be handled gracefully within the GUI. The text console should NOT be used at all: not to report any error, not to read input, not to print output.

**Date of photo**

Since we won't examine a photo file to get the date the photo was taken, we will instead use the last modification date of the photo file (as provided via the Java API to the filesystem) as a proxy. (The user interface will still refer to this as the date the photo was taken.)

Use a `java.util.Calendar` instance for the date and time the photo was taken. **Note:** When you set a date and time in a `Calendar` instance, <font color="red">also make sure you set milliseconds to zero</font>, as in:

<pre>     
     cal.set(Calendar.MILLISECOND,0);
</pre>

Otherwise your equality checks won't work correctly.

**Tags**

Photos can be tagged with pretty much any attribute you think is useful to search on, or group by. Examples are location where photo was taken, so you can search for photos by location, and names of people in a photo.

From the implementation point of view, it may be useful to think of a tag is a combination of tag type and tag value, e.g. ("location","New Brunswick"). Each tag (type+value pair) for a photo is unique. For instance, the people who appear in a photo will appear in multiple tags, one tag per person. However, you can't have two tags with the same person tag type and same person name value.

* * *

## <a name="model"></a>Model

The model should include all data objects, plus code to store and retrieve photos for a user. The collection of classes that comprise the model should be in its own package, separate from the view and controller.

You **are required** to use the `java.io.Serializable` interface, and the `java.io.ObjectOutputStream`/`java.io.ObjectInputStream` classes to store and retrieve data.

Note that your application will need to store content for multiple users, so it would be a good idea to separate different user's contents from each other.

Also, the photos may be anywhere on the local machine where the application is running. They need not be in the application's project space.

You need to think about what objects you want to design, with what attributes and operations. It is important to plan this out and come up with a good object-oriented design that clearly separates roles and functions between objects, and can be cleanly extended to add more features for future versions of the application.

A note about albums: A single user may not have duplicate album names, but the name may be duplicated across users. Also, a photo may appear in multiple albums of a user.

* * *

## <a name="storyboard"></a>GUI Storyboard

Your first task is to design the UI in the form of a **storyboard**.

The storyboard is a sequence of screen diagrams that shows all paths of flow through the interface. Here's a [sample storyboard](storyboard.pdf) for a calculator application that gives you an idea of what you should do. (This is an older version built with Swing, so ignore the labels of the Swing widgets. Also, this is not a complete storyboard in that it does not show all possible screens that are in the UI it describes, nor does it necessarily show all possible transitions between screens. What it does show is how to draw screens, how to label screen components, how to draw transitions between screens, and how to label transitions.)

It is important to have one or more overview diagrams that show all screens and all transitions between them, without any details of the components within the screens themselves. This is an overview that can give the complete picture in one shot. The rest of the storyboard will then draw each screen in detail.

Each screen must be drawn using some drawing package. Or, you can even include screenshots off SceneBuilder rendering of FXML UI layouts. <font color="red">But Screenshots that you take off a Java program WILL NOT be accepted.</font> In other words, there should be **no Java code** written at this stage at all.

Each screen will represent one window of your GUI and will contain all the widgets that go into that screen - text fields, buttons, etc. Be as precise as you can about the selection and layout of the components in a screen. <font color="red">While it is not necessary that you label each Java FX component you will use (as in the sample storyboard), it will help you if you do because there is a smaller amount of design issues to worry about when you start coding the application logic.</font>

Each screen will show transitions to other screens and the events that trigger these transitions. When all is said and done, you will have effectively drawn up a storyboard of your entire GUI that shows all screens and all inter-screen transitions.

**Note**: The title for each screen should be descriptive of what the screen does. The sample storyboard says "Calculator" for all titles, but for your storyboard, name every screen with an appropriate title. This can serve as the title to be displayed in the titlebar when you implement these screens in code.

**Special Note**: Credit for the storyboard will be based on how well it anticipates (and determines) the implementation of the GUI. This portion of the grade for your storyboard will be given **after** you finish the implementation, and we can look at how useful your storyboard has been for your implementation. This means your storyboard is not set in stone, as in you can make some changes to the UI when you build it because you thought of some new/different elements. But the final result can't be too different from the original storyboard, which if it does, will imply that you didn't think through the UI well enough to start with.

* * *

## <a name="worksplit"></a>Work Split Document

When you have finished designing the storyboard, you need to decide how to split the work of implementing all the windows. Implementing a window will also include all non-visual aspects associated with it, all event handling, the connections to the other parts of the GUI, and the connections to the control and model. The work split must be as equal as you can make it.

Type up the work split documentation (plain text or PDF, no other format will be accepted). Make a table with two columns: in one column list the name of the window to be implemented, and in the second, the team member who will implement it.

* * *

## <a name="gui"></a>Complete Implementation (With UML, Javadocs and Data Files)

Code your application using the standard installation of Java 8, using for your GUI Java FX 8 and FXML **only** (No Swing). <font color="red">No external vendor libraries.</font> We will test with the standard Java 8 so if you use any external packages, your program will not run, and you will not get credit.

Document every class you implement with Javadoc tags, and be sure to include authorship.

Represent the object-oriented design of the entire application using a UML class diagram. This should include both the classes you have built, as well as the Java FX classes. For the latter, just the class name will suffice--shade the class box so it's easy to visually separate the Java FX classes from yours. For each class built by your application, show all public fields and methods in the UML representation.

Keep in mind that you will need classes that are not visually represented, but perform data-management functions, as well as broker between the visual classes and the backend. These should be in your UML as well.

**Load the application with some sample data of users, albums, and photos that can be used to test your code.** This data should be able to drive the tests of all features. Of course, your program should be runnable without any of the data files already present, as would be the case when the application is launched the very first time (no users, only admin). The only information needed in a cold start like this would be the password needed to log in the **admin** user, if the password feature is implemented.)

* * *

## <a name="bitbucket"></a>Bitbucket Contents

Your project should be named PhotoAlbumXX, where XX is your 2-digit group number.

### By Wednesday, November 2, 11 PM

(The **docs** and **data** directories mentioned below should be created directly under the project, NOT under **src** or under any of the packages).

*   **GUI Storyboard**: The final form of your storyboard should be a PDF file called **storyboard.pdf**, which should be placed in the **docs** directory
*   **Work Split Document**: The final form of this document should be a plain text (.txt) or PDF file, called **worksplit.txt** or **worksplit.pdf**, and must be in the **docs** directory.

### By Tuesday, November 22, 11 PM

*   **Complete code**: There should be one class called **PhotoAlbum** that should have the **main** method, so it can be launched as an application.
*   **UML**: The complete UML class diagram should be a PDF file called **uml.pdf**, placed in the **docs** directory.
*   **Javadocs**: The complete Javadocs documentation should be generated and placed in the **docs** directory.
*   **Sample Data**: Users, albums, and photos for testing, to be placed in the **data** directory.

* * *

## <a name="grading"></a>Grading

Your project will be graded on the following, for 200 points:

| Category | Points |
| :---: | :---:|
| UI Design - Storyboard (Completeness) | 15 |
| Object Design - UML (Separation of functionality, proper relationships between objects, extensibility) | 15 |
| Features (including robustness) | 170 |
| Total | 200 |

**EXTRA CREDIT**:

*   (Up to **15 points**) for exceptional features.

**Penalties** (up to 20 points) will be assessed on the following:

*   Not using FXML adequately/appropriately to design the UI
*   Inadequate Javadocs
*   Project structure does not properly separate model, view, control classes with appropriate package configuration
*   Needing extra configuration on our part to test your project because you did not follow specifications
*   Usability is poor such as roundabout ways to get at data, and/or confusing interface
*   Lacks scalability i.e. doesn't display large amounts of data (e.g. many tens of photos or more) in a easily navigable way

* * *

## <a name="vision"></a>EXXTRRAA CREDIT: Google Cloud Platform - Vision API

You can earn extra credit upto 25 points by using the Google Cloud Platform Vision API. The Google Vision service scans photos using machine learning algorithms to come up with tags for the content. You can enhance the search functionality on photos with additional tags gleaned from the Vision service.

Exactly how you do this, both in terms of creating new tags on the fly as photos are added to the collection, and in terms of enhancing the basic tag-search UI is completely up to you. But to help you get going here are couple of artifacts:

*   A [draft document](https://www.cs.rutgers.edu/courses/213/classes/fall_2016_venugopal/photoalbum/2016-10-14DraftUsingtheVisionAPIinJava.pdf) from Google that describes how to set up and use the Vision API
*   A [Java code sample](https://www.cs.rutgers.edu/courses/213/classes/fall_2016_venugopal/photoalbum/vision_sample.zip) from Google that makes calls to the API and gets back tag results in JSON format, which is then parsed using Gson.

    All classes in this code sample are in the package <tt>com.google.gcp.vision</tt>. Also, you will need to add the [Gson](https://www.cs.rutgers.edu/courses/213/classes/fall_2016_venugopal/photoalbum/gson-2.7.jar) and [documentation](https://www.cs.rutgers.edu/courses/213/classes/fall_2016_venugopal/photoalbum/gson-2.7-javadoc.jar) jar files as libraries (External JARs) to your project's Java build path.
